Mobile phones have become a ubiquitous commodity in recent years, providing
continuous access to information and communication. This has had a profound
impact on our society. They allow for a new style of communication which has
instant feedback from either the recipient or a collection of third parties,
depending on if direct communication is used. They allow for unrivaled access
to information instantly, which would have been impossible only a few decades
ago. One could take the stance mobile phones have replaced in-person
communication, and as such society is slowly losing understanding of more
subtle, non-verbal communication. While it is true mobile phones are replacing
in-person communication in some instances, they have not completely replaced it.
Formal communication is unlikely to be replaced, but casual communication has
been partial replaced. This is not an issue as more communication opportunities
have been made possible by the use of mobile phones, allowing in-person
communication to happen more frequently. The ease of information access
mobile phones create has dramatically increased the spread of information. This
has allowed the spread of misinformation, which on the surface appears to be a
negative towards mobile phones. By spreading misinformation, more people are
able to view and discredit said information faster, allowing correct 
information to spread unhindered by conflicting misinformation. There is also
the claim mobile phones hinder students' studies. While it is true mobile phones
are most often used for social media access, and playing games, the unrivaled
access to information has undoubtedly aided many students in their studies. Most
students make use of a mobile phone to research topics and discuss the topics
with their peers, allowing for a more productive environment for all students
involved. Mobile phones often have an integrated camera, allowing for the user
to take photographs without having to carry a dedicated device. This has allowed
people to visually document impromptu moments, and lowered the bar to entry for 
amateur film makers and photographers. At this point, I don't care and I doubt
you do either. Some video games for mobile phones have had a positive impact
on society, for example Pokemon Go. This style of video game encourages people
to explore their local area and meet new people, encouraging in-person
communication with said new people using the video game as a basis for said
communication. Therefore there are aspects of mobile phone usage which actively
encourage in-person communication. In conclusion, there is no doubt mobile
phones have had a sizable impact on society, both positive and negative.
Overall they have had a positive impact, by providing continuous communication
and information access.

D'Juan Gladden (2018) The Effects of Smartphones on Social Lives: How They 
Affect Our Social Interactions and Attitudes

Laura Silver, Christine Huang and Kyle Taylor (2019) In Emerging Economies,
Smartphone and Social Media Users Have Broader Social Networks 
